[Music]
the whiskers are on the warpath
this is meerkats at their meanest tails
up backs arched war dancing is a visual
show of strength the bigger the show the
better the chance the other group will
turn tail and flee
without Ernesto whiskers are missing a
warrior but this time Swift and the
other pups make up the numbers
[Music]
these gyms are the dividing line between
whiskers territory and another family
called Sequoia
but this little pup is showing no fear
[Music]
the intruders must have realized there
was no point in putting up a fight
they're nowhere to be seen
the whiskers are just too strong Swift
has passed her first test in the art of
meerkat warfare
[Music]
with so many close calls recently the
whiskers are still on high alert when
they spot a lone male in the distance
naturally they're nervous it could be a
scout from a neighboring troop
males often go out scouting for mating
opportunities but if the family catches
one you'll be killed the whiskers are
not in a friendly mood
Here Come whiskers Swift's there at the
front they're going going going going
going I've lost them got to move but
there's a fantastic surprise ah that's
amazing
it's not a rogue male
it's an esto
[Music]
and the family warmly welcomed him back
meerkats are utterly remarkable two days
ago he was bitten by a Cobra
this animal should be dead
Ernesto has been through the wars but
now he's reunited he's going to be okay
he's a real warrior living proof of just
how resilient these remarkable little
animals are gremlins learning fast
especially about the complexities of
macaque communication every day brings
new examples of how the troop maintains
its social hierarchy and just how
important that is
it's easy to make mistakes showing
respect and knowing how to apologize of
vital life skills
it's the only way to avoid a beating
from someone higher up the social scale
[Music]
sometimes even teeth chattering isn't
enough
[Music]
this is kinder the daughter of the
troops top female in human terms
she's an out-and-out bully she's used to
getting her own way and if she doesn't
she won't hesitate to inflict a nasty
bite she's decided that it's about time
for gremlin to start doing her bidding
she clearly wants gremlin to come with
her perhaps to do some grooming gremlins
mum sitting behind her can't intervene
kinder carries a lot of political clout
in the truth Bremen was deal with this
herself
despite being mauled gremlin does her
best to appear submissive it's the only
way to keep kinder at bay
[Music]
eventually the bully gets bored gremlin
and her mum make a swift exit the dart
falls out but it's already delivered its
payload of tranquilizer
thankfully little pink foots family is
at hand but this could still go badly
wrong
Silvia or her family could charge and
force the team to withdraw
Silvia could fall awkwardly a huge bulk
could restrict her ability to breathe
she could suffocate worse still she
could fall on little pink foot and crush
her but first things are looking good
but then Silvia puts out a distress call
little pink foot responds she runs back
to Silvia and stands right underneath
her 3 ton bulk
for her being right under mum is the
safest place in the world
[Applause]
David and the team try to flush little
pink foot out with their vehicles but
she just won't budge
eventually David does the unthinkable he
risks his own life to save little paint
for us
if Silvia goes down now she could easily
crush them both
[Applause]
but even little pinkfoot weighs a
hundred kilos
moving her takes four
the rest of the herd are wild with
distress
they could charge at any moment
well I do i tender little pink foot
panics
the team have got to get her back to her
sister side
[Music]
[Applause]
thankfully baby elephants instinctively
follow large objects so David uses his
vehicle to lead her towards her family
[Music]
once she's safe the team can start their
work the abscess is huge it's drained
and cleaned thoroughly the team work as
fast as they can to reduce the stress to
Silvia and the rest of the herd a vet
from the Kenyan Wildlife Service gives
her a massive dose of antibiotics
[Music]
thousands of elephants get shot every
year most die slowly and painfully
and finally the vet gives Silvia an
antidote to the tranquilizer to bring
her round
mojo lacks the confidence of his
intrepid neighbors and not only that his
energy levels are at an all-time low
[Music]
it's been days since he last aid and as
the rainy season wears on food is scarce
er than ever
but nyata is determined and extremely
patient
she spends hours watching and stalking
potential prey
she even memorizes every warthog den on
her patch
eventually her patience pays off another
warthog this time a huge male with
deadly tusks
she needs to get close before she
attacks the bushes provide the perfect
cover
[Music]
mission accomplished
now she must protect her kill the boar
is as big as she is it takes all her
strength to drag it into cover
it's slow an exhausting work
[Music]
a hidden island is the perfect place to
defend her kill
[Music]
she calls mojo into feast
after the meal a rare opportunity for
mum and her cub to relax
[Music]
if they become separated they can easily
drown
[Music]
oh my god one is gone
the mothers try in vain but they can't
contain all three as they save one
another washes away
Oh God still going and the baby's gone
soon all three are being swept
downstream fast through the crocodile
infested waters
the currents even too much for the
mothers
babies go
[Applause]
you can't see how they can possibly
survive
you can hear the poor female oh kappa no
no no like all the big femurs are
running okay one baby's out this year
the other one is here
Wow there are two babies actually here
wow they're really tough
come on big females come in
oh they're coming down
I hope they were something because they
will get tired and if a crop grabs them
back
the poor mothers just don't know what to
do they have no way of lifting them out
and David can't even help
[Music]
oh come on females get in and saves the
babies the riverbank is sheer and the
babies are weak and terrified
[Music]
oh man that is so relieving
it's so joyful to see all of them again
coming back together
[Music]